<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [
]>
<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <author>
      <firstname>Jonathan</firstname>
      <surname>Riddell</surname>
      <email>jriddell@ubuntu.com</email>
    </author>
    <copyright>
      <year>2006</year>
      <holder>Jonathan Riddell</holder>
    </copyright>
    <!-- XXX IMPORTANT XXX -->
    <!-- Keep this date up to date: -->
    <date>2006-07-07</date>
    <!--  ^^^^^^^^^^ -->
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>icecc-create-env</refentrytitle>
    <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>icecc-create-env</refname>
    <refpurpose>Create a tar for icecream distributed compiler to use</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>icecc-create-env</command>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
      /usr/lib/icecc/icecc-create-env creates an archive file containing all the files necessary to setup the compiler environment. The file will have a random unique name like "ddaea39ca1a7c88522b185eca04da2d8.tar.bz2" per default. Rename it to something more expressive for your convenience, e.g. "i386-3.3.1.tar.bz2".
    </para>
    <para>
Set ICECC_VERSION=&lt;filename_of_archive_containing_your_environment&gt; in the shell environment where you start the compile jobs and the file will be transfered to the daemons where your compile jobs run and installed to a chroot environment for executing the compile jobs in the environment fitting to the environment of the client. This requires that the icecream deamon runs as root.

    </para>

    <para>
If you do not set ICECC_VERSION, the client will use a tar ball provided by the daemon running on the same machine. So you can always be sure you're not tricked by incompatible gcc versions - and you can share your computer with users of other distributions.

    </para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>OPTIONS</title>
    <para>
      icecc-create-env takes no options.
    </para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>COPYRIGHT</title>
    <para>
      This manual page was written by Jonathan Riddell
      <email>jriddell@ubuntu.com</email> for the
      <productname>Kubuntu</productname> system (but may be used by others).
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
      under the terms of the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License,
      Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
    </para>
    <para>
      On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
      License can be found in
      <filename>/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL</filename>.
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
