<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [
]>
<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <author>
      <firstname>Jonathan</firstname>
      <surname>Riddell</surname>
      <email>jriddell@ubuntu.com</email>
    </author>
    <copyright>
      <year>2006</year>
      <holder>Jonathan Riddell</holder>
    </copyright>
    <!-- XXX IMPORTANT XXX -->
    <!-- Keep this date up to date: -->
    <date>2006-05-01</date>
    <!--  ^^^^^^^^^^ -->
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    <refentrytitle>icecc-scheduler</refentrytitle>
    <manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>icecc-scheduler</refname>
    <refpurpose>Scheduler for your icecream compile cluster</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>icecc-scheduler</command>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
      icecc-scheduler is the server which organises compiles on the icecream compile cluster.
    </para>
    <para>
     WARNING: Never use icecream in untrusted environments. Run the deamons and the scheduler as unpriviliged user in such networks if you have to. Howeveryou will then have to rely on homogeneous networks.
    </para>
    <para>
     To run the scheduler make sure START_ICECC_SCHEDULER="true" is set in /etc/default/icecc and run sudo /etc/init.d/icecc start (it will also start at bootup).
    </para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>OPTIONS</title>
    <para>
      icecc-scheduler takes no options.
    </para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>COPYRIGHT</title>
    <para>
      This manual page was written by Jonathan Riddell
      <email>jriddell@ubuntu.com</email> for the
      <productname>Kubuntu</productname> system (but may be used by others).
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
      under the terms of the <acronym>GNU</acronym> General Public License,
      Version 2 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
    </para>
    <para>
      On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
      License can be found in
      <filename>/usr/share/common-licenses/GPL</filename>.
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>
