<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!-- vim:set ts=4 noet syntax=xml: -->
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
<!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<refentry lang="&language;">
<refentryinfo>
	<title>Icecream User's Manual</title>
	<author>
          <personname>
            <firstname>Cornelius</firstname>
            <surname>Schumacher</surname>
          </personname>
        </author>
	<date>April 21th, 2005</date>
	<productname>Icecream</productname>
</refentryinfo>

<refmeta>
	<refentrytitle>Icecream Daemon</refentrytitle>
	<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>
</refmeta>

<refnamediv>
	<refname>iceccd</refname>
	<refpurpose>Icecream daemon</refpurpose>
</refnamediv>

<refsynopsisdiv>
<cmdsynopsis>
<command>iceccd</command>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-n <replaceable>netname</replaceable></option>
</arg>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-m <replaceable>max_processes</replaceable></option>
</arg>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-w</option>
</arg>
<group>
  <arg choice="opt">
    <option>-d</option>
  </arg>
  <arg choice="opt">
    <option>--daemonize</option>
  </arg>
</group>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-l <replaceable>logfile</replaceable></option>
</arg>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-s <replaceable>schedulerhost</replaceable></option>
</arg>
<arg choice="opt">
  -v<arg choice="opt">v<arg choice="opt">v</arg></arg>
</arg>
<group>
  <arg choice="opt">
    <option>-r</option>
  </arg>
  <arg choice="opt">
    <option>--run-as-user</option>
  </arg>
</group>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-b <replaceable>env-basedir</replaceable></option>
</arg>
<group>
  <arg choice="opt">
    <option>-u</option>
  </arg>
  <arg choice="opt">
    <option>--nobody-uid</option>
  </arg>
  <replaceable> nobodyuid</replaceable>
</group>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>--cache-limit <replaceable>MB</replaceable></option>
</arg>
<arg choice="opt">
  <option>-N <replaceable>hostname</replaceable></option>
</arg>
</cmdsynopsis>
</refsynopsisdiv>

<refsect1>
<title>Description</title>
<para>The Icecream daemon has to run on all nodes being part of the Icecream
compile cluster. It receives compile jobs and executes them in a chroot
environment. The compile clients send their compile environment the first time
they send a job to a particular daemon, so that the environment of the daemon
doesn't have to match the one of the client.</para>

<para>The daemon also has to run on clients sending compile jobs to the Icecream
network. If a node should be able to send compile jobs, but never receive any,
start the daemon with the option <literal>-m 0</literal>.</para>

<para>All Icecream daemons need to have contact to the Icecream scheduler which
controls the distribution of data between compile nodes. Normally the daemon
will automatically find the right scheduler. If this is not the case you can
explicitly specify the name of the Icecream network and the host running the
scheduler.</para>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Options</title>

<variablelist>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-n</option> <parameter>netname</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>The name of the icecream network the daemon should connect to.
There has to be a scheduler running for the network under the same network
name.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-m</option> <parameter>max_processes</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Maximum number of compile jobs started in parallel on machine
running the daemon.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-w</option></term>
<listitem><para></para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-d</option>, <option>--daemonize</option>
</term>
<listitem><para>Detach daemon from shell.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-l</option> <parameter>logfile</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Name of file where log output is written to.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-s</option> <parameter>scheduler_host</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Name of host running the scheduler for the network the daemon
should connect to. This option might help if the scheduler can't broadcast its
presence to the clients due to firewall settings or similar
reasons.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-v</option>, <option>-vv</option>, <option>-vvv</option></term>
<listitem><para>Control verbosity of daemon. The more v the more
verbose.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-r</option>, <option>--run-as-user</option>
</term>
<listitem><para>Force running the daemon with user rights. Usually you will need
to run the daemon with root rights.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-b</option> <parameter>env_basedir</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>Base directory for storing compile environments sent to the
daemon by the compile clients.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>-u</option>, <option>--nobody-uid</option>
<parameter>nobodyuid</parameter>
</term>
<listitem><para>Id of user nobody. This user id is used when the daemon is
dropping privileges.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term>
<option>--cache-limit</option>
<parameter>MB</parameter>
</term>
<listitem><para>Maximum size in Mega Bytes of cache used to store compile
environments of compile clients.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><option>-N</option> <parameter>hostname</parameter></term>
<listitem><para>The name of the icecream host on the network.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>See Also</title>
<para>icecream, scheduler, iceccd, icemon</para>
</refsect1>

<refsect1>
<title>Author</title>
<para>Cornelius Schumacher</para>
</refsect1>

</refentry>
